## Least Privilege S3 Bucket Policy

### how to do it
1. Deny all action to everyone who is not intended to have access.
2. Grant the required permissions to specific IAM users, roles, or services that need access to the S3 bucket.

### Best Practices
- Use AWS KMS to encrypt data at rest.
- Review Bucket policies for least privilege access regularly.
- Enable versioning to protect against accidental deletions.
- Implement lifecycle policies to manage data retention and deletion.
- Setup Bucket Access logs for monitoring access patterns.
- Use VPC endpoints to secure access from private networks.
- Setup CRR (Cross-Region Replication) for disaster recovery.
- Setup SRR (Same-Region Replication) for compliance and latency optimization.
- Disable ACL's (default is disabled, needed to enable when using S3 Access logs or Cross Account Access).
- Grant access to buckets via IAM Roles
- Use HTTPS for data in transit. (use CloudFront or RESTAPI of S3)
- Consider S3 Object Lock for WORM (Write Once Read Many) requirement.
- Use Caching for frequently accessed data (CloudFront, ElasticCache, etc)
- use DNS compliant bucket names for easier access eg: my-company-data instead of my_company_data.
- Enfore secureTransport in bucket policy to ensure data is transmitted over HTTPS.
- Use presign URL for temporary access to private objects.

#### Auditing and Montioring
- Monitor S3 CloudWatch metrics for requests, errors, and latency.
- Enable server access logging.
- Enable AWS CloudTrail to track the API calls made to S3.
- Enable AWS Config to monitor bucket configurations.
- Use Storage Lens for advanced visibility into storage usage and activity trends.

#### Data security with managed AWS security services
- GuardDuty is Threat Detection Services that will continuously monitor the CloudTrail events for suspicious activity.
- Amazon Detective to analyze, investigate, and quickly identify the root cause of potential security issues or suspicious activities.
- IAM Access Analyzer to identify the resources in your organization and accounts that are shared with an external entity.
- Amazon Macie to discover, classify, and protect sensitive data stored in S3.These sensitive data types include multiple types of personally identifiable information (PII), financial data, and credentials data.
- AWS Security Hub to centrally view and manage security alerts and automate compliance checks.



